README.md, before:

# SpatialOS SDK for Rust

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jamiebrynes7/spatialos-sdk-rs.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/jamiebrynes7/spatialos-sdk-rs) [![dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/jamiebrynes7/spatialos-sdk-rs/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/jamiebrynes7/spatialos-sdk-rs) ![Rustc Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-1.31-blue.svg)


> This is an **unoffical**, **unsupported**, and **untested** integration of the [SpatialOS SDK C API bindings](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/13.3/capi/introduction) with Rust. Improbable does not officially support Rust as a worker language.

This is still heavily WIP and should be treated as such. Progress can be seen in the `Projects` boards which define milestones and progress toward those milestones. When this reaches feature parity with the C API and has basic code generation in which all user facing APIs are safe, a crate will be published to `crates.io`.

## Setup 

1. Clone this repository.
2. Run `cargo run --bin download_sdk -- -d dependencies -s 13.5.1` to download the C API dependencies.
3. Set the `SPATIAL_LIB_DIR` environment variable to the location of the dependencies: `export SPATIAL_LIB_DIR=$(pwd)/dependencies`.
4. Run `cargo build` 

If these steps complete successfully, the `spatialos-sdk` crate has been built and linked successfully and can be used in user code.

## Running the Example Project

To run the example project, you will need to:

1. Build a release version of the RustWorker - `cargo build --example project-example --release`.
2. Build the schema descriptor for Spatial - `./spatialos-sdk/examples/project-example/setup.sh`
3. In two terminals:
   - Navigate to the `spatialos` directory and start spatial: `cd spatialos-sdk/examples/project-example/spatialos/ && spatial local launch`
   - Run the example project worker - `cargo run --example project-example -- receptionist --worker_type RustWorker`

### Updating Rust bindings

To update the Rust bindings found in `spatialos-sdk-sys` run the following command from the root of the repository:

```bash
cargo run --bin generate_bindings -- -i ./dependencies/win/include/improbable/ -o ./spatialos-sdk-sys/src/
```

Note that this depends on `bindgen` which has `clang` as a dependency. See [here](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-bindgen/requirements.html) for more info.

Commit message:

Generated Code (first pass) + Entity (#6)
* Added generated code idea.

* Merged Serializer traits into ComponentVtable trait. Impl
SchemaComponentData.

* Draft of vtable code generation.

* Nice, you can make C function pointers templates too.

* Implemented vtable (requires cleanup). Pass ComponentDatabase to
connection.

* Move vtable code into worker::component. Working
OnAddComponent/OnComponentUpdate.

* Added code generator library. Uses serde to parse the schema bundle.

* Some code generation.

* Code generator progress.

* Renamed setup.sh -> codegen.sh. Added hook to call code generator.

* More progress.

* Fix some semantic merge conflicts.

* Fixed some semantic merge conflicts. Updated schema_bundle structure.

* More bugfixes.

* Down to 76 errors.

* Reduced to 30 errors.

* Builds without errors (but probably doesn't work).

* Remove "hand written" generated code.

* Merged ComponentVtable and ComponentMetaclass into a single trait.

* Fix component serialization

* Code review.

* Vtable serialization improvements (#52)

* Add Entity type

* Fix component serialization

* Update RustWorker permissions

* Use a HashMap to store component data in Entity

* Add Entity::get

* Add safe API for getting component/update data

* Fix references to Component::component_id

* Update codegen to not reference Component::component_id

* Hide internal component types. Add schema() functions. Fix commands.

* Lint

* More lint.

README.md, after:

# SpatialOS SDK for Rust

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jamiebrynes7/spatialos-sdk-rs.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/jamiebrynes7/spatialos-sdk-rs) [![dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/jamiebrynes7/spatialos-sdk-rs/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/jamiebrynes7/spatialos-sdk-rs) ![Rustc Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-1.31-blue.svg)


> This is an **unoffical**, **unsupported**, and **untested** integration of the [SpatialOS SDK C API bindings](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/13.3/capi/introduction) with Rust. Improbable does not officially support Rust as a worker language.

This is still heavily WIP and should be treated as such. Progress can be seen in the `Projects` boards which define milestones and progress toward those milestones. When this reaches feature parity with the C API and has basic code generation in which all user facing APIs are safe, a crate will be published to `crates.io`.

## Setup 

1. Clone this repository.
2. Run `cargo run --bin download_sdk -- -d dependencies -s 13.5.1` to download the C API dependencies.
3. Set the `SPATIAL_LIB_DIR` environment variable to the location of the dependencies: `export SPATIAL_LIB_DIR=$(pwd)/dependencies`.
4. Run `cargo build` 

If these steps complete successfully, the `spatialos-sdk` crate has been built and linked successfully and can be used in user code.

## Running the Example Project

To run the example project, you will need to:

1. Run the code generator - `./spatialos-sdk/examples/project-example/codegen.sh`
2. Build a release version of the RustWorker - `cargo build --example project-example --release`.
3. In two terminals:
   - Navigate to the `spatialos` directory and start spatial: `cd spatialos-sdk/examples/project-example/spatialos/ && spatial local launch`
   - Run the example project worker - `cargo run --example project-example -- receptionist --worker_type RustWorker`

## Testing the code generator

To run the code generator tests, run the following:

```
cargo test -p spatialos-sdk-code-generator
```

To display Rusts autogenerated debug representation of the schema bundle, run the following:

```
cargo test -p spatialos-sdk-code-generator -- --nocapture
```

### Updating Rust bindings

To update the Rust bindings found in `spatialos-sdk-sys` run the following command from the root of the repository:

```bash
cargo run --bin generate_bindings -- -i ./dependencies/win/include/improbable/ -o ./spatialos-sdk-sys/src/
```

Note that this depends on `bindgen` which has `clang` as a dependency. See [here](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-bindgen/requirements.html) for more info.
